So let's work on that login page and for that I'll first of all add a new routes file which I'll name auth.js
and in there, I want to manage my authentication related routes.
Now for that, I will first of all set this up in a similar way to my other route files which means I will
set up the express router,
so let me simply create that here,
we don't need the admin control though, so we have that router and I'll then export that router and for now I
need one get route in here. A get route for /login then which will load the login page,
so /login is what I want to handle here
and as always, we have our request response next function here for handling that incoming request.
Now in order to reach that route, we of course need to register it in the app.js file and in app.js,
first of all let's import that route,
so I'll duplicate my shop routes, name them auth routes, the name is up to you of course and it's in the
auth file in the routes folder,
so that file we just added and with the auth routes added there,
I will simply add them below my shop routes. Just like the shop routes,
I have no leading filter
so every request will go in there and anything which is not found in the shop routes will therefore
go into the auth routes and in the auth routes, I will handle
/login, this route here. Now in here
I simply want to render a page and I want to render a page in the let's say auth folder and just as I do
this in the shop controller here, I will also create an auth controller for that.
So let's maybe duplicate this get orders action from the shop controller, add it here
and let's name it
get login
and then I don't need to find any orders or anything like that,
that of course can be removed,
I just want to render something,
I want to render auth login here,
the path will be /login, your orders well I will simply name this login and I don't pass any other
data.
So it's a really simple controller action in my auth.js file and with that in the auth.js file
in the routes folder, I can simply import that,
so here I will import my auth controller by requiring that from the controllers folder in the, whoops,
the auth file there
and then here for login, I will not use that function but point at my controller with the get login function.
Ok so now we get the same setup we used for the other routes and now we have that login controller
action which will render the login page with the appropriate title.
Now let me head over to navigation.ejs
real quick and make sure that this gets highlighted when we are on the page
and for that I will copy that class assignments, that css class assignment, add it here
and the path should be /login or whatever you assigned in your controller action.
With that out of the way, let's add that folder and file in the views folder,
so I'll add an auth folder here and in there a login.ejs
file because that is just what I try to render my controller right, there
I try to render auth login.
so we need to have that path and file in our views folder. And for that I will really just use my product
excuse me, my admin, my edit product page because there I have a form and I will move that into the login.ejs
file,
I will include head.ejs,
I don't need the product.css but I need the forms.css
.
I will include the navigation, then this here will receive a new class, we can name this login form and
see how we have to adjust the styling for that
then. The action here, well that action will always be the same,
we don't have different modes here,
the action is always login and we send a post request to that login route. And then here let's say we
have an email address, we name that field email here and we give it an ID of email,
it's also of type email and not of type text
and let's not start with a default value, so we don't need that here
and we also need a password let's say, so let's add password here, name this password and give it an ID
of password and the type here will also be password so that the characters are hidden
and with that, we get also rid of this value here.
Now we don't need the other form controls so we can get rid of these form controls,
slso of the hidden one for now and let's simply add a button at the bottom which is of type submit and
which simply says login,
so a really simple form. With all of that in place,
if we now click onto that login button, we are indeed loading that login page.
Now the styling is a bit off because we need to style that login form and for that, I'll real quick add
a new css file which I'll name auth.css and in there on the login form,
let's have a look at the product form,
I think we can just reuse that style here
and yes we could have therefore also like refactored it into a global style but I'll just do it
like this. And in login.ejs,
we now just make do, need to make sure that we do also import that new auth.css file I just added.
So if you now reload this, this looks pretty good.
So now we got this in place
and as I mentioned, I will not implement a full login flow right now,
we'll do that in the next module where we dive into authentication and everything that belongs to it.
But here I want to show you how we can use a cookie to save the information that this user is logged in
and for that, we'll continue in the next lecture and see how we can use cookies.